

BECOME THE BEST IN THE WORLD AT WHAT YOU DO.
KEEP REDEFINING WHAT YOU DO UNTIL THIS IS TRUE.
FIND AND BUILD SPECIFIC KNOWLEDGE
Sales skills are a form of specific knowledge.
There’s such a thing as “a natural” in sales. You run into them
all the time in startups and venture capital. When you meet
someone who is a natural at sales, you just know they’re
amazing. They’re really good at what they do. That is a form
of specific knowledge.
Obviously they learned somewhere, but they didn’t learn it in a
classroom setting. They learned probably in their childhood in
the school yard, or they learned negotiating with their parents.
Maybe some is a genetic component in the DNA.
But you can improve sales skills. You can read Robert Cialdini,
you can go to a sales training seminar, you can do door-to-door
sales. It is brutal but will train you very quickly. You can defi-
nitely improve your sales skills.
40 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

NEW PAGE

Specific knowledge cannot be taught, but it can be learned.
When I talk about specific knowledge, I mean figure out what
you were doing as a kid or teenager almost effortlessly. Some-
thing you didn’t even consider a skill, but people around you
noticed. Your mother or your best friend growing up would
know.
Examples of what your specific knowledge could be:
→ Sales skills
→ Musical talents, with the ability to pick up any instrument
→ An obsessive personality: you dive into things and remem-
ber them quickly
→ Love for science fiction: you were into reading sci-fi, which
means you absorb a lot of knowledge very quickly
→ Playing a lot of games, you understand game theory pretty
well
→ Gossiping, digging into your friend network. That might
make you into a very interesting journalist.
The specific knowledge is sort of this weird combination of
unique traits from your DNA, your unique upbringing, and
your response to it. It’s almost baked into your personality and
your identity. Then you can hone it.
No one can compete with you on being you.
Most of life is a search for who and what needs you the most.
BUILDING WEALTH · 41

NEW PAGE

For example, I love to read, and I love technology. I learn very
quickly, and I get bored fast. If I had gone into a profession
where I was required to tunnel down for twenty years into the
same topic, it wouldn’t have worked. I’m in venture investing,
which requires me to come up to speed very, very quickly on
new technologies (and I’m rewarded for getting bored because
new technologies come along). It matches up pretty well with
my specific knowledge and skill sets. [10]
I wanted to be a scientist. That is where a lot of my moral hier-
archy comes from. I view scientists as being at the top of the
production chain for humanity. The group of scientists who have
made real breakthroughs and contributions probably added
more to human society, I think, than any single other class of
human beings. Not to take away anything from art or politics or
engineering or business, but without science, we’d still be scram-
bling in the dirt fighting with sticks and trying to start fires.
Society, business, & money are downstream of technology,
which is itself downstream of science. Science applied is the
engine of humanity.
Corollary: Applied Scientists are the most powerful people in
the world. This will be more obvious in the coming years.
My whole value system was built around scientists, and I
wanted to be a great scientist. But when I actually look back at
what I was uniquely good at and what I ended up spending my
time doing, it was more around making money, tinkering with
technology, and selling people on things. Explaining things
and talking to people.
42 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

