

what you’re doing now. But at least when it comes to the goal-
oriented life, only about 1 percent of the efforts you made paid
off.
Another example is all the people you dated until you met
your husband or wife. It was wasted time in the goal sense.
Not wasted in the exponential sense, not wasted in the learning
sense, but definitely wasted in the goal sense.
The reason I say this is not to make some glib comment about
how 99 percent of your life is wasted and only 1 percent is
useful. I say this because you should be very thoughtful and
realize in most things (relationships, work, even in learning)
what you’re trying to do is find the thing you can go all-in on
to earn compound interest.
When you’re dating, the instant you know this relationship
is not going to be the one that leads to marriage, you should
probably move on. When you’re studying something, like a
geography or history class, and you realize you are never going
to use the information, drop the class. It’s a waste of time. It’s
a waste of your brain energy.
I’m not saying don’t do the 99 percent, because it’s very hard
to identify what the 1 percent is. What I’m saying is: when you
find the 1 percent of your discipline which will not be wasted,
which you’ll be able to invest in for the rest of your life and
has meaning to you—go all-in and forget about the rest. [10]
BUILDING WEALTH · 49

NEW PAGE

INTENTIONS DON’T MATTER.
ACTIONS DO.
TAKE ON ACCOUNTABILITY
Embrace accountability and take business risks under your
own name. Society will reward you with responsibility, equity,
and leverage.
To get rich, you need leverage. Leverage comes in labor, comes
in capital, or it can come through code or media. But most of
these, like labor and capital, people have to give to you. For
labor, somebody has to follow you. For capital, somebody has
to give you money, assets to manage, or machines.
So to get these things, you have to build credibility, and you
have to do it under your own name as much as possible, which
is risky. So, accountability is a double-edged thing. It allows
50 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

NEW PAGE

you to take credit when things go well and to bear the brunt
of the failure when things go badly. [78]
Clear accountability is important. Without accountability, you
don’t have incentives. Without accountability, you can’t build
credibility. But you take risks. You risk failure. You risk humil-
iation. You risk failure under your own name.
Luckily, in modern society, there’s no more debtors’ prison
and people aren’t imprisoned or executed for losing other
people’s money, but we’re still socially hardwired to not fail
in public under our own names. The people who have the
ability to fail in public under their own names actually gain
a lot of power.
I’ll give a personal anecdote. Up until about 2013, 2014, my
public persona was entirely around startups and investing.
Only around 2014, 2015 did I start talking about philosophy
and psychological things and broader things. It made me a
little nervous because I was doing it under my own name.
There were definitely people in the industry who sent me
messages through the backchannel like, “What are you doing?
You’re ending your career. This is stupid.”
I kind of just went with it. I took a risk. Same with crypto. Early
on, I took a risk. But when you put your name out there, you
take a risk with certain things. You also get to reap the rewards.
You get the benefits. [78]
In the old days, the captain was expected to go down with the
ship. If the ship was sinking, then literally the last person to
get off was the captain. Accountability does come with real
risks, but we’re talking about a business context.
BUILDING WEALTH · 51

