

I have some sales skills, which is a form of specific knowledge.
I have some analytical skills on how to make money. And I
have this ability to absorb data, obsess about it, and break it
down—that is a specific skill that I have. I also love tinkering
with technology. And all of this stuff feels like play to me, but
it looks like work to others.
There are other people to whom these things would be hard,
and they say, “Well, how do I get good at being pithy and sell-
ing ideas?” Well, if you’re not already good at it or if you’re not
really into it, maybe it’s not your thing—focus on the thing
that you are really into.
The first person to actually point out my real specific knowl-
edge was my mother. She did it as an aside, talking from the
kitchen, and she said it when I was fifteen or sixteen years old.
I was telling a friend of mine that I want to be an astrophysi-
cist, and she said, “No, you’re going to go into business.” I was
like, “What, my mom’s telling me I’m going to be in business?
I’m going to be an astrophysicist. Mom doesn’t know she’s
talking about.” But Mom knew exactly what she was talking
about. [78]
Specific knowledge is found much more by pursuing your
innate talents, your genuine curiosity, and your passion. It’s
not by going to school for whatever is the hottest job; it’s not
by going into whatever field investors say is the hottest.
Very often, specific knowledge is at the edge of knowledge. It’s
also stuff that’s only now being figured out or is really hard to
figure out. If you’re not 100 percent into it, somebody else who
is 100 percent into it will outperform you. And they won’t just
outperform you by a little bit—they’ll outperform you by a lot
BUILDING WEALTH · 43

NEW PAGE

because now we’re operating the domain of ideas, compound
interest really applies and leverage really applies. [78]
The internet has massively broadened the possible space of
careers. Most people haven’t figured this out yet.
You can go on the internet, and you can find your audience.
And you can build a business, and create a product, and build
wealth, and make people happy just uniquely expressing your-
self through the internet. [78]
The internet enables any niche interest, as long as you’re the
best person at it to scale out. And the great news is because
every human is different, everyone is the best at something—
being themselves.
Another tweet I had that is worth weaving in, but didn’t go into
the “How to Get Rich” tweetstorm, was very simple: “Escape
competition through authenticity.” Basically, when you’re
competing with people, it’s because you’re copying them. It’s
because you’re trying to do the same thing. But every human
is different. Don’t copy. [78]
If you are fundamentally building and marketing something
that is an extension of who you are, no one can compete with
you on that. Who’s going to compete with Joe Rogan or Scott
Adams? It’s impossible. Is somebody else going to come along
and write a better Dilbert? No. Is someone going to compete
with Bill Watterson and create a better Calvin and Hobbes? No.
They’re being authentic. [78]
44 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

NEW PAGE

The best jobs are neither decreed nor degreed. They are
creative expressions of continuous learners in free markets.
The most important skill for getting rich is becoming a perpet-
ual learner. You have to know how to learn anything you want
to learn. The old model of making money is going to school for
four years, getting your degree, and working as a professional
for thirty years. But things change fast now. Now, you have to
come up to speed on a new profession within nine months, and
it’s obsolete four years later. But within those three productive
years, you can get very wealthy.
It’s much more important today to be able to become an expert
in a brand-new field in nine to twelve months than to have
studied the “right” thing a long time ago. You really care about
having studied the foundations, so you’re not scared of any
book. If you go to the library and there’s a book you cannot
understand, you have to dig down and say, “What is the foun-
dation required for me to learn this?” Foundations are super
important. [74]
Basic arithmetic and numeracy are way more important in life
than doing calculus. Similarly, being able to convey yourself
simply using ordinary English words is far more important
than being able to write poetry, having an extensive vocabulary,
or speaking seven different foreign languages.
Knowing how to be persuasive when speaking is far more
important than being an expert digital marketer or click opti-
mizer. Foundations are key. It’s much better to be at 9/10 or
10/10 on foundations than to try and get super deep into things.
BUILDING WEALTH · 45

