

The risk here would be you would probably be the last one to
get your capital back out. You’d be the last one to get paid for
your time. The time that you put in, the capital you put into
the company, these are at risk. [78]
Realize that in modern society, the downside risk is not that
large. Even personal bankruptcy can wipe the debts clean in
good ecosystems. I’m most familiar with Silicon Valley, but
generally, people will forgive failures as long as you were
honest and made a high-integrity effort.
There’s not really that much to fear in terms of failure, and
so people should take on a lot more accountability than they
do. [78]
NOITACOLLA
KNOWLEDGE
52 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

NEW PAGE

BUILD OR BUY EQUITY IN A BUSINESS
If you don’t own a piece of a business, you don’t have a path
towards financial freedom.
Why is owning equity in a business important to becoming
rich?
It’s ownership versus wage work. If you are paid for rent-
ing out your time, even lawyers and doctors, you can make
some money, but you’re not going to make the money that
gives you financial freedom. You’re not going to have passive
income where a business is earning for you while you are on
vacation. [10]
This is probably one of the most important points. People seem
to think you can create wealth—make money through work.
It’s probably not going to work. There are many reasons for
that.
Without ownership, your inputs are very closely tied to your
outputs. In almost any salaried job, even one paying a lot per
hour like a lawyer or a doctor, you’re still putting in the hours,
and every hour you get paid.
Without ownership, when you’re sleeping, you’re not earn-
ing. When you’re retired, you’re not earning. When you’re on
vacation, you’re not earning. And you can’t earn nonlinearly.
If you look at even doctors who get rich (like really rich), it’s
because they open a business. They open a private practice.
The private practice builds a brand, and the brand attracts
BUILDING WEALTH · 53

NEW PAGE

people. Or they build some kind of a medical device, a proce-
dure, or a process with an intellectual property.
Essentially, you’re working for somebody else, and that person
is taking on the risk and has the accountability, the intellectual
property, and the brand. They’re not going to pay you enough.
They’re going to pay you the bare minimum they have to, to
get you to do their job. That can be a high bare minimum, but
it’s still not going to be true wealth where you’re retired but
still earning. [78]
Owning equity in a company basically means you own the
upside. When you own debt, you own guaranteed revenue
streams and you own the downside. You want to own equity.
If you don’t own equity in a business, your odds of making
money are very slim.
You have to work up to the point where you can own equity in
a business. You could own equity as a small shareholder where
you bought stock. You could also own it as an owner where
you started the company. Ownership is really important. [10]
Everybody who really makes money at some point owns a piece
of a product, a business, or some IP. That can be through stock
options if you work at a tech company. That’s a fine way to start.
But usually, the real wealth is created by starting your own
companies or even by investing. In an investment firm, they’re
buying equity. These are the routes to wealth. It doesn’t come
through the hours. [78]
54 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

