



NEW PAGE

ERIC’S NOTE (ABOUT
THIS BOOK)
Throughout his career, Naval has generously shared his
wisdom, and millions of people around the world follow his
advice on building wealth and living happily.
Naval Ravikant is an icon in Silicon Valley and startup culture
around the world. He founded multiple successful companies
(Epinions during the 2000 dot-com crash, AngelList in 2010).
Naval is also an angel investor, betting early on companies like
Uber, Twitter, Postmates, and hundreds more.
More than a financial success, Naval has been sharing his own
philosophy of life and happiness, attracting readers and listen-
ers throughout the world. Naval is broadly followed because he
is a rare combination of successful and happy. After a lifetime
of study and application of philosophy, economics, and wealth
creation, he has proven the impact of his principles.
Today, Naval continues to build and invest in companies almost
casually, in his own artistic way, while maintaining a healthy,
peaceful, and balanced life. This book collects and organizes
ERIC ’S NOTE (ABOUT THIS BOOK) · 17

NEW PAGE

the pieces of wisdom he has shared and shows you how to
achieve the same for yourself.
Naval’s life story is instructive. An introspective founder,
self-taught investor, capitalist, and engineer certainly has
something to teach us all.
As a first-principles thinker with no fear of speaking his truth,
Naval’s thoughts are often unique and thought-provoking. His
instinct for seeing through life’s veneer has changed how I see
the world.
I’ve learned an enormous amount from Naval. Reading, listening,
and applying his principles of wealth and happiness has given
me calm confidence on my path and taught me to enjoy every
moment of this journey. Closely studying his career has shown
me how great things are accomplished through small, persistent
steps, and how large an impact one individual can have.
I refer to his work often and recommend it to friends. Those
conversations inspired me to create this book, so people can
learn from his perspective whether they’re new to Naval’s ideas
or have followed him the past ten years.
This book collects the wisdom shared by Naval over the past
decade in his own words through Twitter, blog posts, and pod-
casts. With this book, you can get the benefits of a lifetime in
a few hours.
I created this book as a public service. Tweets, podcasts, and
interviews quickly get buried and lost. Knowledge this valu-
able deserves a more permanent, accessible format. That is
my mission with this book.
18 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

