

You do need to be deep in something because otherwise you’ll
be a mile wide and an inch deep and you won’t get what you
want out of life. You can only achieve mastery in one or two
things. It’s usually things you’re obsessed about. [74]
.TSERETNI
DNUOPMOC
,SPIHSNOITALER MORF
EMOC
REHTEHW ,EGDELWONK
NI ,HTLAEW
SNRUTER
EHT
,EFIL
LLA
NI RO
PLAY LONG-TERM GAMES.
PLAY LONG-TERM GAMES WITH LONG-TERM PEOPLE
You said, “All the returns in life, whether in wealth, relation-
ships, or knowledge, come from compound interest.” How
does one know if they’re earning compound interest?
46 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

NEW PAGE

Compound interest is a very powerful concept. Compound
interest applies to more than just compounding capital. Com-
pounding capital is just the beginning.
Compounding in business relationships is very important.
Look at some of the top roles in society, like why someone is
a CEO of a public company or managing billions of dollars.
It’s because people trust them. They are trusted because the
relationships they’ve built and the work they’ve done has
compounded. They’ve stuck with the business and shown
themselves (in a visible and accountable way) to be high-
integrity people.
Compound interest also happens in your reputation. If you
have a sterling reputation and you keep building it for decades
upon decades, people will notice. Your reputation will literally
end up being thousands or tens of thousands of times more
valuable than somebody else who was very talented but is not
keeping the compound interest in reputation going.
This is also true when you’re working with individual people. If
you’ve worked with somebody for five or ten years and you still
enjoy working with them, obviously you trust them, and the
little foibles are gone. All the normal negotiations in business
relationships can work very simply because you trust each
other—you know it will work out.
For example, there’s another Angel in Silicon Valley named
Elad Gil who I like to do deals with.
I love working with Elad because I know when the deal is being
done, he will bend over backward to give me extra. He will
always round off in my favor if there’s an extra dollar being
BUILDING WEALTH · 47

NEW PAGE

delivered here or there. If there’s some cost to pay, he will pay
it out of his own pocket, and he won’t even mention it to me.
Because he goes so far out of his way to treat me so well, I send
him every deal I have—I try to include him in everything. Then,
I go out of my way to try and pay for him. Compounding in
those relationships is very valuable. [10]
Intentions don’t matter. Actions do. That’s why being ethical
is hard.
When you find the right thing to do, when you find the right
people to work with, invest deeply. Sticking with it for decades
is really how you make the big returns in your relationships and
in your money. So, compound interest is very important. [10]
99% of effort is wasted.
Obviously, nothing is ever completely wasted because it’s all a
learning moment. You can learn from anything. But for exam-
ple, when you go back to school, 99 percent of the term papers
you did, books you read, exercises you did, things you learned,
they don’t really apply. You might have read geography and
history you never reuse. You might have studied a language
you don’t speak anymore. You might have studied a branch of
mathematics you completely forgot.
Of course, these are learning experiences. You did learn. You
learned the value of hard work; you might have learned some-
thing that went deep into your psyche and became a piece of
48 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

