

Become the best in the world at what you do. Keep
redefining what you do until this is true.
↓
There are no get-rich-quick schemes. Those are just someone
else getting rich off you.
↓
Apply specific knowledge, with leverage, and eventually you
will get what you deserve.
↓
When you’re finally wealthy, you’ll realize it wasn’t what you
were seeking in the first place. But that is for another day. [11]
Summary: Productize Yourself
Your summary says “Productize yourself”—what does that
mean?
“Productize” and “yourself.” “Yourself” has uniqueness.
“Productize” has leverage. “Yourself” has accountability. “Pro-
ductize” has specific knowledge. “Yourself” also has specific
knowledge in there. So all of these pieces, you can combine
them into these two words.
BUILDING WEALTH · 37

NEW PAGE

If you’re looking toward the long-term goal of getting wealthy,
you should ask yourself, “Is this authentic to me? Is it myself
that I am projecting?” And then, “Am I productizing it? Am I
scaling it? Am I scaling with labor or with capital or with code
or with media?” So it’s a very handy, simple mnemonic. [78]
This is hard. This is why I say it takes decades—I’m not saying
it takes decades to execute, but the better part of a decade may
be figuring out what you can uniquely provide. [10]
What’s the difference between wealth and money?
Money is how we transfer wealth. Money is social credits. It
is the ability to have credits and debits of other people’s time.
If I do my job right, if I create value for society, society says, “Oh,
thank you. We owe you something in the future for the work
you did in the past. Here’s a little IOU. Let’s call that money.” [78]
Wealth is the thing you want. Wealth is assets that earn while
you sleep. Wealth is the factory, the robots, cranking out things.
Wealth is the computer program that’s running at night, serv-
ing other customers. Wealth is even money in the bank that is
being reinvested into other assets, and into other businesses.
Even a house can be a form of wealth, because you can rent it
out, although that’s probably a lower productivity use of land
than some commercial enterprise.
So, my definition of wealth is much more businesses and assets
that can earn while you sleep. [78]
38 · THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT

NEW PAGE

Technology democratizes consumption but consolidates
production. The best person in the world at anything gets to
do it for everyone.
Society will pay you for creating things it wants. But society
doesn’t yet know how to create those things, because if it did,
they wouldn’t need you. They would already be stamped out.
Almost everything in your house, in your workplace, and on the
street used to be technology at one point in time. There was
a time when oil was a technology that made J.D. Rockefeller
rich. There was a time when cars were technology that made
Henry Ford rich.
So, technology is the set of things, as Alan Kay said, that don’t
quite work yet [correction: Danny Hillis]. Once something
works, it’s no longer technology. Society always wants new
things. And if you want to be wealthy, you want to figure out
which one of those things you can provide for society that
it does not yet know how to get but it will want and provid-
ing it is natural to you, within your skill set, and within your
capabilities.
Then, you have to figure out how to scale it because if you only
build one, that’s not enough. You’ve got to build thousands,
or hundreds of thousands, or millions, or billions of them so
everybody can have one. Steve Jobs (and his team, of course)
figured out society would want smartphones. A computer in
their pocket that had all the phone capability times one hun-
dred and was easy to use. So, they figured out how to build it,
and then they figured out how to scale it. [78]
BUILDING WEALTH · 39

